Add containerized development environment (#384)
apache/accumulo-website: README.md

Jekyll will print a local URL where the site can be viewed (usually,
[http://0.0.0.0:4000/](http://0.0.0.0:4000/)).

> ### Docker dev environment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Testing using Docker environment
```

Author: Suggestion added in b1547a3

A containerized development environment can be built using the local Dockerfile. 

```bash
docker build -t webdev .
```

The webdev container's run command will run jekyll's serve command with the 

> polling option enabled.  This allows for immediate review of rendered changes.   

Author: Markdown renders double spaces after a line as a line break. 
I've gone through and swapped out the double spaces for the `\` character instead. 
This should still render a line break in markdown while being a bit nicer to view.

> polling option enabled.  This allows for immediate review of rendered changes.   

Reviewer 2: Markdown's behavior with the trailing spaces is confusing a bit, I think, because it's not clear if a newline is intended or not. I'm glad there's an alternative syntax for it, but I also don't think we need line breaks in these paragraphs. If the break is important, it's probably worth creating a new paragraph.

```bash

> docker run -d -v $PWD:/site -p 4000:4000 --name accumulo-website webdev

Author: I've implemented the change and tested that the quoted commands still work as intended.

Jekyll will print a local URL where the site can be viewed (usually,
[http://0.0.0.0:4000/](http://0.0.0.0:4000/)).

### Testing using Docker environment 

> #### Build environment

Reviewer 2: We can get rid of this section header, since we don't need to go that deep and there's only one section here now. We can revisit later, if needed.

```suggestion
```

> A containerized development environment can be built using the local
> Dockerfile.
> 
> Run the build-images.sh script to generate the development environment and
> associated images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A containerized development environment can be built using the local
Dockerfile. You can build it with the following command:

```

Author: Ah I missed that in my earlier removal. 
Thanks for the catch!

```bash
docker build -t webdev .
```

> This action will produce a `webdev` container which will execute a
> `jekyll serve` command with the polling option enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action will produce a `webdev` image, with all the website's build
prerequisites preinstalled. When a container is run from this image, it
will perform a `jekyll serve` command with the polling option enabled,
so that changes you make locally will be immediately reflected.
```

The webdev container does not store any site content inside of it.
For rendering to function, the local directory must be mounted inside
the container in a read/write configuration.

This mounting is accomplished with the volume `-v` flag in the

> following `docker run` command.

Reviewer 2: When you run a container using the webdev image, your current working
directory will be mounted, so that any changes made by the build inside
the container will be reflected in your local workspace. This is done with the
`-v` flag. To run the container, execute the following command:

```bash
docker run -d -v "$PWD":/mnt/workdir -p 4000:4000 webdev
```

> This provides the ability to immediately review rendered content changes at
> [http://127.0.0.1:4000/](http://127.0.0.1:4000/).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this container is running, you will be able to review the rendered website
in your local browser at [http://127.0.0.1:4000/](http://127.0.0.1:4000/).
```

Author: Changes Added!

Jekyll will print a local URL where the site can be viewed (usually,
[http://0.0.0.0:4000/](http://0.0.0.0:4000/)).

### Testing using Docker environment 

#### Build environment
A containerized development environment can be built using the local

> Dockerfile.\

Reviewer 2: I see you're using a lot of backslashes here in the README to add arbitrary line breaks. Micro-managing the flow like that is a very different style of writing from our usual Markdown. I recommend just sticking to regular paragraph flow, and let the browser handle line wrapping automatically for long lines. If a sentence needs to stand out on its own, rather than just using a line break, just put a blank line between to make a new new paragraph. My understanding is that separate paragraphs are also better for some screen readers for people with low vision, as well, but I could be wrong about that. At the very least, that would be more consistent with our existing style, and a lot easier to maintain.

```suggestion
Dockerfile.

```

Author: Paragraph flow just looks very cluttered to me. 
I'm also unaware of any screen reader benefits but I'll switch these over anyway.

Run the build-images.sh script to generate the development environment and
associated images.

```bash
./build-images.sh
```

> This action will produce two containers: `webdev` and `webdev-validator`.\
> The webdev container will execute a `jekyll serve` command with the
> polling option enabled.\
> This provides the ability to immediately review rendered content changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action will produce two containers: `webdev` and `webdev-validator`.
The webdev container will execute a `jekyll serve` command with the
polling option enabled.
This provides the ability to immediately review rendered content changes.
```

```bash
docker run -d -v "$PWD":/site -p 4000:4000 webdev
```

> Shell access can be obtained by overriding the default container command.\
> This is useful for adding new gems, or modifying the Gemfile.lock for updating
> existing dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shell access can be obtained by overriding the default container command.
This is useful for adding new gems, or modifying the Gemfile.lock for updating
existing dependencies.
```

```bash
docker run -v "$PWD":/site -it webdev /bin/bash
```

Mounting the local directory as a volume is recommended to ensure that Gemfile and
Gemfile.lock stay updated with any dependency changes.

#### Validation environment

> The `webdev-validator` image can be used to run validation tests against the
> rendered website content.\
> The output directory `_site` needs to be volume mounted for these tests to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `webdev-validator` image can be used to run validation tests against the
rendered website content.
The output directory `_site` needs to be volume mounted for these tests to work.
```

Jekyll will print a local URL where the site can be viewed (usually,
[http://0.0.0.0:4000/](http://0.0.0.0:4000/)).

### Testing using Docker environment 

#### Build environment
A containerized development environment can be built using the local
Dockerfile.

Run the build-images.sh script to generate the development environment and
associated images.

```bash
./_scripts/build-images.sh
```

This action will produce two containers: `webdev` and `webdev-validator`.
The webdev container will execute a `jekyll serve` command with the

> polling option enabled.

Reviewer 2: Do we always need to create both?

I know I already provided feedback on the script, but given how small the `build-images.sh` script is, it might make sense to just inline the two build commands into the README, so that the second one is optional, and get rid of the script. It's basically a two line script, and the second one is optional if you're not running the validator.

Author: Not for the base container, but it provides an easy button for tagging. 

If you run the validator build step separately, it will always build the first container or reference it from the cache. 
This is due to the fact that they are in the same Dockerfile and the `base` container is an earlier stage.
 
This build pattern is intended to ensure that the images don't drift from each other while also minimizing the number of Dockerfiles and the ordering of disjointed image builds. 

I agree that the script is pretty small, but the only reason I kept the script is because we are tagging **both** images and it ensures the tagging is done correctly to minimize errors.  

The `--tag` option on a docker build command only applies to the last built image in a Dockerfile. 
That `--target` option limits the build step to only target the image declared as "base" in the Dockerfile. 
`docker build --target base -t "$BASE_TAG" .` 

If someone runs a build command without the `--target base` filter, the Dockerfile will build and tag the second image and will not tag the first image at all. Instead, that image just shows up as a docker image with no name and a SHA id.

If that were to occur,  the dev would have a mis-tagged validator image, **and** an base image that had no referenced tag to easily figure out what it is. 

Having a script to run and ensure images are tagged correctly would alleviate that issue while still allowing developers the freedom of manually running the build steps if they so chose.

Reviewer 2: I think my point here is moot now... since I think we can do everything we need with a single image. (See other comment)

> This provides the ability to immediately review rendered content changes.

Reviewer 2: I think this would expose the rendered site at `http://127.0.0.1:4000/` ?

```suggestion
This provides the ability to immediately review rendered content changes at http://127.0.0.1:4000/ .
```

Author: Change has been included.

```bash
docker run -d -v "$PWD":/site -p 4000:4000 webdev
```

Shell access can be obtained by overriding the default container command.

This is useful for adding new gems, or modifying the Gemfile.lock for updating
existing dependencies.

```bash
docker run -v "$PWD":/site -it webdev /bin/bash
```

Mounting the local directory as a volume is recommended to ensure that Gemfile and

> Gemfile.lock stay updated with any dependency changes.

Reviewer 2: Is there a simple command to do that mounting that we can add to this README, or is that what is being done by the `-v` command flag? In trying to figure this out, I saw https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/, which recommends using `--mount` instead.

Author: Yes the mounting is being done by the `-v` option. 
Line 131 should be the exact command someone needs to run to render their changes locally with the container. 

Mount is a bit more verbose with the only requirement that the target directory must exist prior to the mount operation while `-v` has no such requirement. Since we control the creation of the container, we would just need to create the target directories as part of our build steps. 

 If we swapped the commands out, the new one would look like this: 
` docker run -d --mount type=bind,source="$pwd",target=/site -p 4000:4000 webdev`
vs `docker run -d -v "$pwd":/site -p 4000:4000 webdev`

Personally I prefer the shorthand command, but I'll defer if  using `--mount` helps relate things together.

Reviewer 2: Given the verbosity of `--mount`, and the ubiquity of `-v`, I'm inclined to agree `-v` is better. But, I think the wording in the README should make it more clear what's happening. Instead of saying `Mounting... is recommended`, which sounds like we're recommending the user *do something extra*... we say something like:

```
The `-v` flag mounts the directory to ensure that updates to the directory inside
the container are reflected in your local environment so you can create a commit
and submit a PR.
```

Author: Ok, I've rewritten the README to include more direct wording regarding mounting the local directory for both the shell access command, and the original webdev run command. 

Let me know what you think!

Reviewer 2: Now that I'm understanding the Docker stuff better, I think we can streamline the container builds by just having one container (see earlier comment). I'll re-review the doc updates after that stuff is resolved. I actually still think the validation stuff should be done in a separate PR entirely. That would streamline this PR and we could get this merged in right away, doc updates included. With the validator stuff still up in the air (two containers vs. one container), I'm not sure what changes might still need to be made in the docs.
